In this video,
we're going to Handle Browser Refresh.
So we have a little problem
and you may have noticed this already.
If we add products to the cart
then we refresh the browser page,
we actually lose products in the cart, yikes.
And so our cart goes to zero, not good.
The same problem happens
when we add products to the cart, then log in.
We lose products in the cart again, not good.
So let me show you a quick demo of this issue
just so you can kind of see it real time.
So we're in our application here,
and let's go ahead and add some items to our cart
and we can see we have X number of items
in our cart right now, that looks good.
And then if I go over and refresh the browser
or reload the page,
then Oh, notice up here,
the cart is empty on page refresh
Ah, terrible, awful.
Now let's add some more items to our cart
so we have three items here in the cart.
Now let's go into a log in
and then once we're logged in
and we can look up top and ah, again
the cart is empty after log in
awful, bad, yuck I don't like it.
So we need to solve this problem,
and here's one possible solution.
So we can keep track of the cart products
using client side browser web storage.
HTML5 introduced this idea of the Web Storage API,
where we basically store data in the browser
using key value pairs and it's similar to cookies,
but it provides a more intuitive API.
And it also requires a modern web browser
that supports HTML5
but most browsers out now support HTML5.
Now this solution that I'm showing you
is actually based on a solution provided by Matt Seymour.
Matt is one of our students,
he saw this issue and he created a solution
and posted it in the QA discussion forum.
I saw the solution and I'm like, wow,
this looks really good.
And other students also saw his solution.
So I said, hey Matt, this is a great solution.
Is it okay to add this to the course?
And Matt replied, sure no problem
so that's awesome.
So thanks a lot Matt for helping out with this solution.
Now there's two types of web storage that we can use.
There are session storage,
where the data's stored in the web browsers memory,
and there's also local storage
the data is stored on the client side computer.
So let's talk a bit more about Session Storage.
So it stores the data in the web browser session memory.
So data is never sent to the server.
Now, one thing that's important here
when they say browser session
they're referring to the web browser session
it's only client side.
Don't confuse this with Backend HttpSession all right?
These are two separate things
there's no relationship between the two.
So again, web browser session basically
just means the client side memory of the web browser.
So each web browser tab has its own session
and data's not shared between the web browser tabs.
And once the web browser tab is closed
or the browser is exited
then the data is no longer available.
So only for in memory
while that given browser tab is running.
Now, let's take a look at local storage.
So local storage stores the data locally
on the client web browser computer
the data's never sent to the server.
The data's available to tabs
of the same web browser for the same origin.
So the app must read the data again,
only with the browser refresh.
The data persists even if the web browser is closed.
So if you close the browser and start it again
you can still access the same data
and there's no expiration date on the data.
And also you can clear the data using
out of JavaScript code or clearing the web browser cache.
So data's scoping.
So the data is scoped to a given origin.
So only pages from the same origin can access the data.
Well, what's an origin?
Well, an origin is a combination of the protocol,
the host name, and the port.
So here's an example of a same origin.
So we have Http: localhost: 4200
equals the same localhost 4200.
That's the exact same origin,
same protocols, same hostnames, same port.
Now here's a different origin.
So we have localhost 4200 is not equal to localhost 8080.
And the reason here is because they have different ports.
So even though they have the same hostname
they're running on different ports.
So that means different origin and also the protocols,
the unsecure Http compared to the secure HTTPS,
those are different protocols, all right.
So to have the same origin,
the protocol, hostname, and port must match.
And again, only pages from the same origin
can access the data.
So this prevents one website like, CNN.com
from accessing data from another website like, Apple.com.
And a bit more here on local storage.
So for local storage, data is not shared
between different web browsers.
For example, Chrome cannot access the local storage
of Firefox.
So on the right-hand side we have Firefox
and it's local storage,
Chrome cannot access any of the local storage data
for a different web browser.
Now here's some factors to consider.
So data and web storage is stored as plain text
so it's not encrypted.
So don't use it for any sensitive info
such as credit card, numbers, et cetera.
And also be aware that power users may tinker with files
on their computer.
In general, your apps should be resilient
to still work as storage is not available.
The user may clear their browser cache.
Your app should still use reasonable defaults and that's
something that you'd have to code for accordingly.